.TH vivid 1 "DEZ 2022" "vivid 0.8.0" "LS_COLORS manager with multiple themes"
.SH NAME
\fBvivid \fP- LS_COLORS manager with multiple themes
\fB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
 \fBvivid\fP [\fIOPTION\fP]

.fam T
.fi
.fam T
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generator for the LS_COLORS (environment variable) controlling the color voice
of ls, tree, fd, bfs, duste and many other tools. It uses a YAML configuration
format for the file type database and core themes.
.PP
Unlike dircolors, the database and themes are organized in different files.
This allows users to choose and customize color themes independently from
the collection of file extensions. Instead of using cryptic ANSI escape
codes, colors can be specified in RRGBBB format and will be converted to
ANSI truecolor (24-bit) codes or 8-bit codes for older terminal emulators.
.SH USAGE:
\fBvivid\fP <SUBCOMMAND>
.SH OPTIONS:
.TP
.B
\fB-m\fP, \fB--color-mode\fP <mode>
Type of ANSI colors to be used [default: 24-bit]
[possible values: 8-bit, 24-bit]
.TP
.B
\fB-d\fP, \fB--database\fP <path>
Path to filetypes database (filetypes.yml)
.TP
.B
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Prints help information
.TP
.B
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
Prints version information
.SH SUBCOMMANDS:
.TP
.B
generate
Generate a LS_COLORS expression
.TP
.B
preview
Preview a given theme
.TP
.B
themes
Prints list of available themes
.TP
.B
help
Prints this message or the help of the given \fBsubcommand\fP(s)
.SH EXAMPLES:
Choose a color theme (for example: molokai).
Then, add this to your shells RC file (~/.bashrc, ~/.zshrc, …):
export LS_COLORS="$(\fBvivid\fP generate molokai)"
.PP
Note:
Terminals without true color support
By default, \fBvivid\fP runs in true color mode (24-bit). If you don't have a
terminal that supports 24-bit colors, use the \fB--color-mode\fP 8-bit option
when running \fBvivid\fP. This will generate interpolated 8-bit colors:
export LS_COLORS="$(\fBvivid\fP \fB-m\fP 8-bit generate molokai)"
.SH AUTHOR
openfile was written by David Peter <mail@david-peter.de>
.PP
This manual page was written by Josenilson Ferreira da Silva <nilsonfsilva@hotmail.com>
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
